2026.6.16 Tue.
memo

Centralization:YoRHa Squad (The Bunker, Moon Server)
P2P (Peer-to-Peer):Machine Lifeforms, Vajra
Fork / Hard Fork:Pascal's Village, Forest Kingdom
Blockchain:Vajra (Their response after being attacked)
RPC Node: Adam and Eve (NieR:Automata) ...🤔?
Autonomous Decentralization (Absence of a Queen Bee):
Machine Lifeforms, Vajra → Even after Mishima, Grace, or the Aliens (Creators/Leaders) disappear, they keep acting without the system shutting down.

Amethyst's Gigabyte Eater (Data Hog):Fold Communication Faction
(When you imagine the Vajra scattered all across the universe syncing and communicating with zero lag, well, it completely makes sense🙃lol)


---

Collective AI (Concept):N2 (Because they have no individual self, they do not disappear and they do not worry)
Independent AI (Individual):Terrestrial Resistance (Because they think independently, they experience fear, exhaustion, and they worry)

---

Network Outages / Server Crashes / AWS Downtime, etc.
The thing where the Bunker's backdoor was opened and infected by a virus, and only the individuals that were synced got infected.
(9S, who turned off his sync, and A2, a deserter, did not get infected = Meaning carriers or systems not using them are not affected)

---

✍️
Rewatch Macross F
Replay NieR:Automata all the way through , Rewatch the anime

I heard that Ghost in the Shell is like a bible in US tech,
but I found out Macross F has zero recognition.
Apparently, due to grown-up circumstances,
it was sealed away for 30 years.
What a waste. I want people to watch it.
I am absolutely Team Sheryl😭😭😭

---

中央集権：ヨルハ部隊(バンカー、月面サーバー)
P2P：機械生命体、バジュラ
フォーク/ハードフォーク：パスカル村、森の王国
ブロックチェーン：バジュラ(攻撃を受けたあとの反応)
自律分散(女王蜂の不在)：機械生命体、バジュラ→三島、グレイス、エイリアン(創造主、リーダー)が消えても、システムを落とさずに活動を続ける
Amethystのギガ喰い虫：フォールド派
(全宇宙に散らばるバジュラ同士でラグ0で通信共有してるのをイメージするとそりゃそうだ🙃笑)

集合AI(概念)：N2(個がないから消えない、悩まない)
独立AI(個体)：地上レジスタンス(独立して考えるから恐怖、疲弊し悩む)

通信障害/サーバー落ち/AWSシステムダウンなど：バンカーがバックドア開放されウイルス汚染し同期していた個体のみが感染したときのやつ。
(同期を切っていた9S、脱走個体A2が感染しなかった=それらを使用してないキャリア、システムなどは影響を受けない)

✍️
マクロスF 見返す、NieR:Automata もっかい通しでやる、アニメ見返す
アメリカのテックでは攻殻機動隊がバイブルらしいけど、マクロスFは一切知名度がないことを知った。
大人の事情(権利問題)で30年封印されてたらしい。勿体無い。見てほしい。私は絶対的にシェリル派😭
